# Fridge-Project
A web-based project providing the user with several options of ingredients to pick from, provided with a search bar. selected ingredients will then be combined to pick recipes containing the entered ingredients from a database. Results are filtered based on the user's inputs and by quantity of ingredients available. The recipes are shown with pictures of them, they can also search for a specific recipe within their customized result page. Finally, by clicking on a recipe, more information such as cooking directions and calories are provided to help the user make better choices. 
## Objective
This is a college project with the objective of implementing a software-design pattern known as façade pattern. This design pattern serves as a front-facing interface masking more complex underlying code. To fulfill the purpose of this design, our team decided to create an easy-to-use UI for the user, which will be supported by some code in the backend, and that is the reason why we decided to create a webpage using html and CSS as front-end design with functionalities determined by a JavaScript code on the back-end. 
## Limitations
Finding an appropriate database for the project was a big challenge, it took most of our time to find one and we later disregarded it for its many flaws. Since we were getting short on time, the only solution was to create our own database. Doing so turned out to be a great alternative, we were able to include the most famous Lebanese food, which added originality to our database relative to all the others that we had found prior.
Another big challenge was learning not only one or two but three new languages. We went for a combination of HTML/CSS/JAVASCRIPT to properly represent the design pattern that we was assigned. Learning all these new languages in 2 months while also having to put up with other college work. was a tough task, however we knew that building a website would have these consequences, however, this is what the project intended to be, a way for us to widen our knowledge of programming in general, and this is exactly what it did. To learn these languages each member of the team watched online computer science Harvard lectures suggested by our instructor. Eventually we managed to acquire basic knowledge of web programming and were able to create the website.
## Workload Repartition
Every member of the team is proud of the final work that was achieved at the end, to get there we divided the aspects of the project between us. Mainly there was the front-end, back-end, documentation, database, implementation of design pattern, PowerPoint, alongside many other aspects that were dismissed throughout the creation process.
## Final Thoughts
If you ask any member on the team if they are satisfied with the final work, they will of course answer yes. But, the possibility of improvement is present, a larger database with more recipes, more options to pick from, filters for the display of results, and others. The project definitely has a larger potential, perhaps these additional functions will be added in the future. In any case, we are all very proud of the outcome, and we are all glad that we were able to have the experience of a group programming project. 
